You can install Open Data Hub, which is the upstream project of Red Hat OpenShift AI (RHOAI), on any OpenShift deployment option. Red Hat 
offers a enterprise-grade supported Red Hat OpenShift AI (RHOAI) service, based on Open Data Hub, 
in two different deployment options:
 
- As a self-managed service running on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform (RHOCP).
- As a managed cloud service running on Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated, or Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA).



Data Science: (DS)

Data science challenges range from capturing and gathering data, to querying, describing, analyzing and visualizing the data to extract 
knowledge and answer questions. Being such a diverse field, data science integrates techniques from many other areas, such as algebra, 
calculus, statistics, probability, data and software engineering, and Big Data.

...

Machine Learning: (ML)

Machine Learning (ML) is a subset of data science that aims to train computers to learn patterns from data and produce generalized responses.
These trained, intelligent systems are called ML models, or models. In general terms, an ML model is a mathematical function that takes a 
set of inputs and produces an output. When you train a model, you are in fact applying an algorithm that learns the operations that this 
function must compute to produce the desired output. The function learns these operations by using the patterns discovered in the training 
data set.

Generalization is one of the most important features of ML models, and refers to the ability of a model to produce satisfactory responses 
on unseen data. For example, assume that you train a model to recognize cats by using a training data set of 1000 images. You can consider
that the model generalizes well if it detects cats that were not initially included in the initial 1000 training images.

The ML techniques are diverse and suitable for different purposes.

- Traditional ML techniques provide best results in structured data, such as tabular data sets. These methods are suitable for predicting 
  numerical values, categorizing, or segmenting data automatically. For example, you can apply these techniques to predict house pricing.
- Deep learning techniques are powerful and provide best results in artificial cognition and generation, typically by using unstructured 
  data such as text, audio, and images.
- Reinforcement Learning (RL) is arguably more specialized, and not always considered a DS technique. Rather than using existing data for 
  training, RL simulates actions and outcomes for learning. A notable example of the use of Reinforcement Learning is training models 
  to play video games or classic strategy games, such as Chess and Go.

...

Deep Learning: (DL)

Deep Learning (DL) is a type of machine learning, characterized by the use of large neural networks. A Neural Network is an ML model used 
to learn complex patterns in data, by using an architecture inspired in biological neurons.

Research on deep learning and its use in generative and cognitive AI has been particularly prolific in the last decade. These methods have 
proven to be effective with unstructured data, such as text, images, sound, or videos. Examples of deep learning are artificial vision, speech recognition, and natural language processing. The latest trends in DL include techniques such as Diffusion Models and Large Language Models (LLMs), which are capable of generating multimedia content, as well as producing well structured text narratives, writing code, and maintaining coherent conversations.

One downside of deep learning models is their size and complexity. These models typically need large data sets for training, and have 
high memory and compute requirements. The use of Graphical Processing Units (GPU) is common in deep learning to speed up computations.

...

Red Hat OpenShift AI:

One of the main difficulties that AI projects face is the gap between data science and engineering. Engineering and operations teams 
are not always familiar with the complexities of AI, data science, and machine learning. Likewise, data scientists sometimes lack the 
engineering resources and expertise to build, deploy, and monitor models in modern cloud environments.

Machine learning operations (MLOps) help organizations solve this challenge. MLOps is inspired by DevOps principles and brings many of 
the benefits of DevOps to AI projects, streamlining the whole lifecycle of ML models.

Red Hat OpenShift AI (RHOAI) is a platform for data scientists, AI practitioners, developers, machine learning engineers, and operations 
teams to prototype, build, deploy, and monitor AI models. By using an MLOps perspective, RHOAI helps teams overcome key challenges:

...

RHOAI Key Features:

RHOAI turns Red Hat OpenShift into a full-fledged AI platform, which includes the common tools and features that the AI ecosystem requires. 
The following features are some key capabilities of RHOAI:

Jupyter notebooks:
Arguably one of the most popular tools for data science, research, and experimentation. Jupyter Notebooks provide interactive and executable 
live documents and shells on the web browser. A notebook can contain executable code, rich text, and multimedia content.

Portable working environments:
Each working environment is available as a container image. Users can create these environments based on the specific container image 
that they need. RHOAI provides preconfigured images, but users can create custom ones.

GPU-ready environments:
RHOAI provides stable working environments that are preconfigured for Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA) and NVIDIA GPUs, 
which are typically required for deep learning.

Cloud-first Model Serving:
RHOAI ships with model servers, such as OpenVino, which enable users to serve their models right after training them, without having 
to develop specific servers or APIs.

Pipelines:
Users can automate the typical ML workflows of data gathering, model training, evaluation, and deployment, instead of performing these 
tasks manually.

Model monitoring:
You can monitor the performance of AI models in production with Prometheus and Grafana dashboards.


